README.md, before:

[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/basyx-wiki/badge/?version=latest)](https://wiki.basyx.org/en/latest/?badge=latest)
![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/eclipse-basyx/basyx-wiki)

# BaSyx Wiki

Documentation for the Eclipse BaSyx Project: [BaSyx Wiki](https://wiki.basyx.org/)

## How to contribute to BaSyx

We encourage you to contribute to BaSyx! Please check out the [Contributing to BaSyx guide](https://github.com/eclipse-basyx/basyx-wiki/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines about how to proceed.

Trying to report a possible security vulnerability in BaSyx? Please check out our [security policy](https://github.com/eclipse-basyx/basyx-wiki/security/policy) for guidelines about how to proceed.

Everyone interacting in BaSyx and its sub-projects' codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms, and mailing lists is expected to follow the BaSyx [code of conduct](https://github.com/eclipse-basyx/basyx-wiki?tab=coc-ov-file#readme).

## License

BaSyx is released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Update README to include preview build note

README.md, after:

[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/basyx-wiki/badge/?version=latest)](https://wiki.basyx.org/en/latest/?badge=latest)
![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/eclipse-basyx/basyx-wiki)

# BaSyx Wiki

Documentation for the Eclipse BaSyx Project: [BaSyx Wiki](https://wiki.basyx.org/)

## Preview PRs

When opening a new Pull Request in the BaSyx wiki repository, you are able to preview how the wiki website will look like after the merge.
The link for the preview build is constructed like this:

```
https://basyx-wiki--<PR-number>.org.readthedocs.build/en/<PR-number>/
```

For example this could be: https://basyx-wiki--12.org.readthedocs.build/en/12/

## How to contribute to BaSyx

We encourage you to contribute to BaSyx! Please check out the [Contributing to BaSyx guide](https://github.com/eclipse-basyx/basyx-wiki/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines about how to proceed.

Trying to report a possible security vulnerability in BaSyx? Please check out our [security policy](https://github.com/eclipse-basyx/basyx-wiki/security/policy) for guidelines about how to proceed.

Everyone interacting in BaSyx and its sub-projects' codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms, and mailing lists is expected to follow the BaSyx [code of conduct](https://github.com/eclipse-basyx/basyx-wiki?tab=coc-ov-file#readme).

## License

BaSyx is released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
