docs/source/content/user_documentation/basyx_components/v2/aas_repository/index.md, before:

# AAS Repository

![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/eclipsebasyx/aas-repository)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/eclipse-basyx/basyx-java-server-sdk)
![Metamodel](https://img.shields.io/badge/Metamodel-v3.0-yellow)
![API](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-v3.0-yellow)

The AAS Repository is a component that provides a REST API to interact with Asset Administration Shells. It allows the creation, retrieval, update, and deletion of AAS instances.

## Features
- [Authorization](./features/authorization.md)
- [Registry Integration](./features/registry-integration.md)
- [MQTT](./features/mqtt.md)

## Configuration

### Server Configuration
The following shows how to configure the server port, application name and AAS Repository Name.

```properties
server.port = 8081
spring.application.name = AAS Repository
basyx.aasrepo.name = aas-repo
```

### Backend Configuration ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/required-true-red)
By default, it uses InMemory. Optionally, you can configure MongoDB.

#### InMemory ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/default-true-blue)
```properties
basyx.backend = InMemory
```
#### MongoDB ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/default-false-blue)
```properties
basyx.backend = MongoDB
spring.data.mongodb.host=mongo
spring.data.mongodb.host=127.0.0.1
spring.data.mongodb.port=27017
spring.data.mongodb.database=aas
spring.data.mongodb.authentication-database=admin
spring.data.mongodb.username=mongoAdmin
spring.data.mongodb.password=mongoPassword
```
---

### [Registry Integration](./features/registry-integration.md)
These settings allow the configuration of registry integration and the external URL of the repository.

To enable this feature, the following two properties should be configured:
```
basyx.aasrepository.feature.registryintegration = {AAS-Registry-Base-Url}
basyx.externalurl = {AAS-Repo-Base-Url}
```

### [MQTT configuration](./features/mqtt.md)
This section provides the configuration for enabling MQTT.

```properties
basyx.aasrepository.feature.mqtt.enabled = true
mqtt.clientId = TestClient
mqtt.hostname = localhost
mqtt.port = 1883
```

### CORS Configuration ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/default-false-blue) ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/required-false-red)
Configure CORS settings to specify allowed origins and methods.

```{warning}
To use the component with the [BaSyx Web GUI](../../web_ui/index.md) this configuration is required.

To do this, you need to add the URL of the Web GUI to the allowed origins.
```

This is what an example configuration looks like:

```properties
basyx.cors.allowed-origins = http://localhost:3000, https://my-url/*
basyx.cors.allowed-methods = GET,POST,PATCH,DELETE,PUT,OPTIONS,HEAD
```
---

### [Authorization Configuration](./features/authorization.md) ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/default-false-blue) ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/required-false-red)
Enable and configure authorization features, such as Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) and JWT Bearer Token Provider.
```properties
basyx.feature.authorization.enabled = true
basyx.feature.authorization.type = rbac
basyx.feature.authorization.jwtBearerTokenProvider = keycloak
basyx.feature.authorization.rbac.file = classpath:rbac_rules.json
spring.security.oauth2.resourceserver.jwt.issuer-uri= http://localhost:9096/realms/BaSyx

```
---

### Favicon Configuration ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/default-false-blue) ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/required-false-red)
```{note}
A favicon is a small 16×16 or 32×32 pixel icon, symbol or logo used by web browsers to identify a website in a recognizable way
```
To configure the favicon, mount your favicon to the `static` directory of the component using Docker:
```
docker run --name=aas-repo -p:8081:8081 -v C:/path/to/favicon.ico:/application/static/favicon.ico eclipsebasyx/aas-repository:2.0.0-SNAPSHOT
```
or
```yaml
aas-repo:
    image: eclipsebasyx/aas-repository:2.0.0-SNAPSHOT
    container_name: aas-repo
    volumes:
      - ./basyx/aas-repo.properties:/application/application.properties
	  - ./basyx/static/favicon.ico:/application/static/favicon.ico
    ports:
      - '8081:8081'
```

## Docker

Eclipse BaSyx provides the AAS Repository as off-the-shelf component via DockerHub. The following command pulls the image and starts a container for the AAS Repository:

```bash
docker run --name=aas-repo -p:8081:8081 -v C:/path/to/application.properties:/application/application.properties eclipsebasyx/aas-repository:2.0.0-SNAPSHOT
```

## Swagger UI
In the Swagger UI, you can find the API documentation for the AAS Repository.

You can also execute all the API calls directly from the Swagger UI.

The Aggregated API endpoint documentation is available at:

	http://{host}:{port}/v3/api-docs
	
The Aggregated Swagger UI for the endpoints is available at:

	http://{host}:{port}/swagger-ui/index.html


```{toctree}
:hidden:
:maxdepth: 1

features/registry-integration
features/aasxupload
features/authorization
features/mqtt
```

Commit message:

Add documentation for the creation and usage of virtual machine images of BaSyx components

docs/source/content/user_documentation/basyx_components/v2/aas_repository/index.md, after:

# AAS Repository

![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/eclipsebasyx/aas-repository)
![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/eclipse-basyx/basyx-java-server-sdk)
![Metamodel](https://img.shields.io/badge/Metamodel-v3.0-yellow)
![API](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-v3.0-yellow)

The AAS Repository is a component that provides a REST API to interact with Asset Administration Shells. It allows the creation, retrieval, update, and deletion of AAS instances.

## Features
- [Authorization](./features/authorization.md)
- [Registry Integration](./features/registry-integration.md)
- [MQTT](./features/mqtt.md)

## Configuration

### Server Configuration
The following shows how to configure the server port, application name and AAS Repository Name.

```properties
server.port = 8081
spring.application.name = AAS Repository
basyx.aasrepo.name = aas-repo
```

### Backend Configuration ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/required-true-red)
By default, it uses InMemory. Optionally, you can configure MongoDB.

#### InMemory ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/default-true-blue)
```properties
basyx.backend = InMemory
```
#### MongoDB ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/default-false-blue)
```properties
basyx.backend = MongoDB
spring.data.mongodb.host=mongo
spring.data.mongodb.host=127.0.0.1
spring.data.mongodb.port=27017
spring.data.mongodb.database=aas
spring.data.mongodb.authentication-database=admin
spring.data.mongodb.username=mongoAdmin
spring.data.mongodb.password=mongoPassword
```
---

### [Registry Integration](./features/registry-integration.md)
These settings allow the configuration of registry integration and the external URL of the repository.

To enable this feature, the following two properties should be configured:
```
basyx.aasrepository.feature.registryintegration = {AAS-Registry-Base-Url}
basyx.externalurl = {AAS-Repo-Base-Url}
```

### [MQTT configuration](./features/mqtt.md)
This section provides the configuration for enabling MQTT.

```properties
basyx.aasrepository.feature.mqtt.enabled = true
mqtt.clientId = TestClient
mqtt.hostname = localhost
mqtt.port = 1883
```

### CORS Configuration ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/default-false-blue) ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/required-false-red)
Configure CORS settings to specify allowed origins and methods.

```{warning}
To use the component with the [BaSyx Web GUI](../../web_ui/index.md) this configuration is required.

To do this, you need to add the URL of the Web GUI to the allowed origins.
```

This is what an example configuration looks like:

```properties
basyx.cors.allowed-origins = http://localhost:3000, https://my-url/*
basyx.cors.allowed-methods = GET,POST,PATCH,DELETE,PUT,OPTIONS,HEAD
```
---

### [Authorization Configuration](./features/authorization.md) ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/default-false-blue) ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/required-false-red)
Enable and configure authorization features, such as Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) and JWT Bearer Token Provider.
```properties
basyx.feature.authorization.enabled = true
basyx.feature.authorization.type = rbac
basyx.feature.authorization.jwtBearerTokenProvider = keycloak
basyx.feature.authorization.rbac.file = classpath:rbac_rules.json
spring.security.oauth2.resourceserver.jwt.issuer-uri= http://localhost:9096/realms/BaSyx

```
---

### Favicon Configuration ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/default-false-blue) ![Default](https://img.shields.io/badge/required-false-red)
```{note}
A favicon is a small 16×16 or 32×32 pixel icon, symbol or logo used by web browsers to identify a website in a recognizable way
```
To configure the favicon, mount your favicon to the `static` directory of the component using Docker:
```
docker run --name=aas-repo -p:8081:8081 -v C:/path/to/favicon.ico:/application/static/favicon.ico eclipsebasyx/aas-repository:2.0.0-SNAPSHOT
```
or
```yaml
aas-repo:
    image: eclipsebasyx/aas-repository:2.0.0-SNAPSHOT
    container_name: aas-repo
    volumes:
      - ./basyx/aas-repo.properties:/application/application.properties
	  - ./basyx/static/favicon.ico:/application/static/favicon.ico
    ports:
      - '8081:8081'
```

## Docker

Eclipse BaSyx provides the AAS Repository as off-the-shelf component via DockerHub. The following command pulls the image and starts a container for the AAS Repository:

```bash
docker run --name=aas-repo -p:8081:8081 -v C:/path/to/application.properties:/application/application.properties eclipsebasyx/aas-repository:2.0.0-SNAPSHOT
```

## Virtual Machine
Eclipse BaSyx provides the AAS Repository as a virtual machine image for Oracle VirtualBox and VMware Workstation Player. 

The image can be found [here](https://oc.iese.de/index.php/s/9JyJAuOlhh9vMUu). How to use it is described [here](/docs/source/content/user_documentation/user_tutorials/virtualmachines/alpine_virtualmachine_setup_use.md).

## Swagger UI
In the Swagger UI, you can find the API documentation for the AAS Repository.

You can also execute all the API calls directly from the Swagger UI.

The Aggregated API endpoint documentation is available at:

	http://{host}:{port}/v3/api-docs
	
The Aggregated Swagger UI for the endpoints is available at:

	http://{host}:{port}/swagger-ui/index.html


```{toctree}
:hidden:
:maxdepth: 1

features/registry-integration
features/aasxupload
features/authorization
features/mqtt
```
